Adding Bond CNI Documentation Edge 1378 (#747)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/product/atip-features.adoc

- cilium
----

==== Calico
`Calico` is another CNI plug-in for SUSE Edge for Telco.

> To enable Calico on RKE2 cluster as the default plug-in, the following configurations are required in the `/etc/rancher/rke2/config.yaml` file:

Author: Just one. I copied this from the already existing Cilium section. I agree that the use of plural here is weird "configurations". Will change

[,yaml]
----
cni:
- calico
----

This can also be specified with command-line arguments, that is, `--cni=calico` into the server line in `/etc/systemd/system/rke2-server` file.

To use the `SR-IOV` network operator described in the xref:option2-sriov-helm[next section], use `Multus` with another CNI plug-in, like `Cilium` or `Calico`, as a secondary plug-in.

[,yaml]
----
cni:
- multus
- calico
----

[NOTE]
====

> For more information about CNI plug-ins, visit https://docs.rke2.io/install/network_options[Network Options].

Reviewer: I think if we use refer it should be "refer to", but "see" is also fine

====

==== Bond CNI

> SUSE Edge for Telco is already shipping the bond cni plugin. In general terms bonding provides a

Author: Good question and good find! Going through the document I see other users of capitalized "CNI". I will change to Bond CNI

> SUSE Edge for Telco is already shipping the bond cni plugin. In general terms bonding provides a

Author: Okay, that actually solves a lengthy discussion we had. We were not sure on when it started shipping.  I will remove the shipping part and also add the correct comma.

method for aggregating multiple network interfaces into a single logical
"bonded" interface. This is typically used to increase service availability by
introducing redundant networking paths, but can also be used to increase
bandwidth with certain bond modes.  

> The following is supported for the bond cni plugin in combination with multus:

Reviewer 2: Can you please specify what is the following?

Author: Yes, I should indeed

* MACVLAN
* Host Device
* SR-IOV

===== Bond CNI with MACVLAN

> To use the bond cni plugin with MACVLAN two free interfaces are needed in the
> container. The following example uses 'enp8s0' and 'enp9s0'. Start by creating network
> attachment definitions for them: 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the bond cni plugin with MACVLAN two free interfaces are needed in the container. The following example uses 'enp8s0' and 'enp9s0'. Start by creating network attachment definitions for them: 
```
One of the general suggestions is that you don't need to start a new line if you are in the middle of a sentence.

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition enp8s0*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: enp8s0-conf
spec: 
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "macvlan",
          "capabilities": { "ips": true },
          "master": "enp8s0",
          "mode": "bridge",
          "ipam": {}
        }, {
          "capabilities": { "mac": true },
          "type": "tuning"
        }
      ]
    }'
----

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition enp9s0*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: enp9s0-conf
spec: 
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "macvlan",
          "capabilities": { "ips": true },
          "master": "enp9s0",
          "mode": "bridge",
          "ipam": {}
        }, {
          "capabilities": { "mac": true },
          "type": "tuning"
        }
      ]
    }'
----

> After this you need a network attachment definition for the bond itself

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After this,  add a network attachment definition for the bond itself.
```

Author: Looks better, agree

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition bond*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bond-net1
spec:
  config: '{
  "type": "bond",
  "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
  "name": "bond-net1",
  "mode": "active-backup",
  "failOverMac": 1,
  "linksInContainer": true,
  "miimon": "100",
  "mtu": 1500,
  "links": [
     {"name": "net1"},
     {"name": "net2"}
  ],
  "ipam": {
    "type": "static",
    "addresses": [
      {
        "address": "192.168.200.100/24",
        "gateway": "192.168.200.1"
      }
    ],
    "subnet": "192.168.200.0/24",
    "routes": [{
      "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
    }]
  }
}'
----

> The IP addressing picked here is static and defines the address of the bond as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The IP address picked here is static and defines the address of the bond as
```

Author: Yeah, it is not only one address though. Perhaps "The IP address assignment here is static"?

'192.168.200.100' on a /24 network, with a gateway residing on the network's first
available address. In the bond's network attachment we also define the type of
bond we want. In this case it is active-backup.  

> To use this bond the pod needs to know about all interfaces. And example pod
> definition might look like this:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this bond, the pod needs to know about all interfaces. An example pod definition might look like this:  
```

Author: Discussed over slack

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
        k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: '[
{"name": "enp8s0-conf",
"interface": "net1"
},
{"name": "enp9s0-conf",
"interface": "net2"
},
{"name": "bond-net1",
"interface": "bond0"
}]'
spec:
  restartPolicy: Never
  containers:
  - name: bond-test
    image: alpine:latest
    command:
      - /bin/sh
      - "-c"
      - "sleep 60m"
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
----

Note how the annotation refers to all networks and how it defines the mapping
between the interfaces 'enp8s0 -> net1', and 'enp9s0->net2'. 

===== Bond CNI with Host Device

> To use the bond cni plugin with host device two free interfaces are needed in
> the host. These interfaces will be mapped through to the container. The
> following example uses 'enp8s0' and 'enp9s0'. Start by creating network
> attachment definitions for them: 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the bond cni plugin with host device, two free interfaces are needed in the host. These interfaces are then mapped through to the container. The following example uses 'enp8s0' and 'enp9s0'. Start by creating network attachment definitions for them: 
```

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition enp8s0*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: enp8s0-hostdev
spec: 
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "host-device",
          "name": "host0",
          "device": "enp8s0",
          "ipam": {}
        }]
    }'
----

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition enp9s0*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: enp9s0-hostdev
spec: 
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "host-device",
          "name": "host0",
          "device": "enp9s0",
          "ipam": {}
        }]
    }'
----

> After this you need a network attachment definition for the bond itself. This is
> exactly the same as for the MACVLAN case.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After this, add network attachment definition for the bond itself. This is similar to MACVLAN use case. 
```

Author: Will make the change to the sentence

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition bond*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bond-net1
spec:
  config: '{
  "type": "bond",
  "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
  "name": "bond-net1",
  "mode": "active-backup",
  "failOverMac": 1,
  "linksInContainer": true,
  "miimon": "100",
  "mtu": 1500,
  "links": [
     {"name": "net1"},
     {"name": "net2"}
  ],
  "ipam": {
    "type": "static",
    "addresses": [
      {
        "address": "192.168.200.100/24",
        "gateway": "192.168.200.1"
      }
    ],
    "subnet": "192.168.200.0/24",
    "routes": [{
      "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
    }]
  }
}'
----

> The IP addressing picked here is static and defines the address of the bond as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The IP address picked here is static and defines the address of the bond as
```

'192.168.200.100' on a /24 network, with a gateway residing on the network's first

> available address. In the bond's network attachment we also define the type of
> bond we want. In this case it is active-backup.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
available address. In the bond's network attachment, define the type of bond. In this case it is active-backup.  
```

> To use this bond the pod needs to know about all interfaces. And example pod
> definition for bond with host devices might look like this:  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use this bond, the pod needs to know about all interfaces. An example pod definition for bond with host devices might look like this:  
```

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
        k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: '[
{"name": "enp8s0-hostdev",
"interface": "net1"
},
{"name": "enp9s0-hostdev",
"interface": "net2"
},
{"name": "bond-net1",
"interface": "bond0"
}]'
spec:
  restartPolicy: Never
  containers:
  - name: bond-test
    image: alpine:latest
    command:
      - /bin/sh
      - "-c"
      - "sleep 60m"
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
----

===== Bond CNI with SR-IOV
Using the bond cni with SR-IOV is fairly straight forward. For more details on

> how to set up SR-IOV look in the SR-IO section. As described there you will

Reviewer 2: Provide the xref of the SR-IO section. 

If everything is described in SR-IO section, then you do not need to give all the details of creating the policies and virtual functions here.

metadata:
  name: enp9s0-conf
spec: 
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "macvlan",
          "capabilities": { "ips": true },
          "master": "enp9s0",
          "mode": "bridge",
          "ipam": {}
        }, {
          "capabilities": { "mac": true },
          "type": "tuning"
        }
      ]
    }'
----

After this you need a network attachment definition for the bond itself

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition bond*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bond-net1
spec:
  config: '{
  "type": "bond",
  "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
  "name": "bond-net1",
  "mode": "active-backup",
  "failOverMac": 1,
  "linksInContainer": true,
  "miimon": "100",
  "mtu": 1500,
  "links": [
     {"name": "net1"},
     {"name": "net2"}
  ],
  "ipam": {
    "type": "static",
    "addresses": [
      {
        "address": "192.168.200.100/24",
        "gateway": "192.168.200.1"
      }
    ],
    "subnet": "192.168.200.0/24",
    "routes": [{
      "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
    }]
  }
}'
----

The IP addressing picked here is static and defines the address of the bond as

> 192.168.200.100 on a 24 network, with a gateway residing on the network's first

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`192.168.200.100` on a /24 network, with a gateway residing on the network's first
```

available address. In the bond's network attachment we also define the type of
bond we want. In this case it is active-backup.  

To use this bond the pod needs to know about all interfaces. And example pod
definition might look like this:  

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: test-pod
  annotations:
        k8s.v1.cni.cncf.io/networks: '[
{"name": "enp8s0-conf",
"interface": "net1"
},
{"name": "enp9s0-conf",
"interface": "net2"
},
{"name": "bond-net1",
"interface": "bond0"
}]'
spec:
  restartPolicy: Never
  containers:
  - name: bond-test
    image: alpine:latest
    command:
      - /bin/sh
      - "-c"
      - "sleep 60m"
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
----

Note how the annotation refers to all networks and how it defines the mapping

> between the interfaces enp8s0 -> net1, and enp9s0->net2. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
between the interfaces `enp8s0 -> net1`, and `enp9s0 -> net2`. 
```

> ===== Bond CNI with Host Device
> To use the bond cni plugin with Host Device two free interfaces are needed in
> the host. These interfaces will be mapped through to the container. Here we have
> picked enp8s0 and enp9s0. Start by creating network attachment definitions for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
===== Bond CNI with Host Device
To use the bond cni plugin with host device two free interfaces are needed in
the host. These interfaces will be mapped through to the container. The following example uses enp8s0 and enp9s0. Start by creating network attachment definitions for
```

----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: enp9s0-hostdev
spec: 
  config: '{
      "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
      "plugins": [
        {
          "type": "host-device",
          "name": "host0",
          "device": "enp9s0",
          "ipam": {}
        }]
    }'
----

After this you need a network attachment definition for the bond itself. This is
exactly the same as for the MACVLAN case.  

*NetworkAttachmentDefinition bond*

[,shell,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: "k8s.cni.cncf.io/v1"
kind: NetworkAttachmentDefinition
metadata:
  name: bond-net1
spec:
  config: '{
  "type": "bond",
  "cniVersion": "0.3.1",
  "name": "bond-net1",
  "mode": "active-backup",
  "failOverMac": 1,
  "linksInContainer": true,
  "miimon": "100",
  "mtu": 1500,
  "links": [
     {"name": "net1"},
     {"name": "net2"}
  ],
  "ipam": {
    "type": "static",
    "addresses": [
      {
        "address": "192.168.200.100/24",
        "gateway": "192.168.200.1"
      }
    ],
    "subnet": "192.168.200.0/24",
    "routes": [{
      "dst": "0.0.0.0/0"
    }]
  }
}'
----

The IP addressing picked here is static and defines the address of the bond as

> 192.168.200.100 on a 24 network, with a gateway residing on the network's first

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`192.168.200.100` on a /24 network, with a gateway residing on the network's first
```
